How can that now connect our back into the monger TB database by using Mongoose we saw with somebody
beat this was a bit cumbersome I would say because each time we created a new product we had to use
Demong client we had to use to connect method to set up the connection and in the end we had to close
the connection once again.
Now Mongoose works a bit different here Mongoose only requires one specific method and I will add this
method up here and we simply use our Mongoose library once again.
So the important package.
And here we refer to the Connect method now to connect method holds one thing and this one thing our
again our credentials that we stored here in this you are else so we can copy and paste this information
here and pass it into the Connect method.
And this now manages the entire connection between our backend Andy Mongo TB database so we don't have
to open a new connection and close it.
Each time we create a new product.
This is all managed by Mongoose and without diving too much into the details Mongoose uses a concept
named connection pooling someone who's actually opens some connections here and manages actively to
make sure we can always have a well very efficient connection between our database and the backend.
But in contrast to mongo D.B. so we value Mongoose.
I would say that this is a lot more convenient.
Besides managing the connection between our backend and the database connect all the returns a promise
so we can also add.
Then here to for example console log that we are connected
to the database here and we can also add catch to well catch any potential errors.
And that's of course not the only error handling logic you might implement here but things can go wrong
when we try to connect to the database.
Therefore we can use catcher to console log that our connection failed in case things go wrong.
So that's also a nice thing to know about disconnect.
Never.
You're talking about error handling by the way here in our Mongo J.S. file we use tri catch to make
sure that we catch any potential errors.
We could also implement this then when we work with Mongoose of course.
I'll skip this as part of this refresher as I want to focus onto the plain logic of Mongoose here.
We'll of course implement it later in the next module when we use Mongoose as part of our course project.
So the connection is established.
But how can we now finally create the product and store the document in the database level that we have
to save the new product.
Right.
And before with the Hmong would it be driver.
This was not the most convenient approach as we had to refer to the database we had to be further collection.
Then tell Mom would you be that you want to insert one document.
And so on so we add again some things to keep in mind.
Now phone goes.
This works a bit different because as I said already mongoose is a helper here.
The only thing you have to do right here is we could create a new constant maybe named result and this
constant refers to our created product so the newly created product that we want to store in our database.
And now we can use the safe method the safe method is a method provided by Mongoose and it's a method
which can be used in connection with the corresponding models and schemas that you created in Mongoose.
So here with our product model for example that's also one of the reasons why we're using the model
right here.
Otherwise we could just use a normal javascript object but with the model we have access to this safe
method and the awesome thing about the safe method is that this method does all the heavy lifting that
is required to save a document behind the scenes so we don't have to worry about all the things I just
talked about.
So for example about insert one saving does all the things we need.
It refers to the right database database appear specified in our credentials.
It refers to the right collection.
The collection is the name here.
As I said the first argument in our modern effort saw the collection and will be products plural form
with a small p and while saving butcher's safe.
That new document that new product as connect up here save all the returns a promise.
Therefore this is an asynchronous task so we have to add weight here.
Again this makes sense said that before interactions with the database can take a few moments.
Therefore we have an asynchronous task at this stage and the promise in the end yields the safe product.
So this means the document inserted into the database which then is stored in the result constant and
also as mentioned before handling errors here.
Possible but try catch for example at this part of the course file not focus onto this year.
Therefore as we now store to document what's missing is the response.
So the response could be of type Jason.
And here we simply want to give back our result.
Now we only have to make sure that we can use our models our whole Mongoose logic in the aptly s file
because at the moment we still refer to our Mongo firefighters among which is therefore we should changed
as to our Mongoose file.
Again we can omit the file extension what's missing at the moment is our Get logic here so let's comment
this out for a moment we'll implement this in the next lecture.
So saving this and now running empty and start to bring back our development server.
This looks good.
Let's not go back to mongo DP Atlas first here to our collections because I want to delete our database
that we have at the moment to make sure we see that Mongoose really handles all this for us now.
So let's delete products test right here whoops products test not product.
So we now dropped the database so our collection should be empty again.
OK now let's go to postmen and create a new post request to local post free thousand slash products
and here body raw and Jason.
And now we need to provide
the name of the product again.
So as we did it before when we used among would you be driver let's say an apple and the price should
be again zero dot ninety nine.
So let's send this post request and this looks really fine.
We have the apple enterprise again we have the automatically created idea.
As I said this is something we'll have to look at in a separate video towards the end of this module.
And if we now check out our database and we load it we see we again got the database so this was automatically
created by mongoose.
We got the corresponding collection and into the collection we also got our document.
And with that we achieved a lot already.
We now switched our entire test project here to mongoose.
We used a schema and the model and we are now using this model already to interact with our database.
And here for example to create new documents let us not use Mongoose to also get documents from our
database.